# Executive Summary / Overview
 ### Client:
Our client is the Electrical and Electronic Engineering department. Our main point of contact is Dr Nick Simpson. The business sector is non-profit university use.
### Key Problem:
The main Electrical and Electronic Engineering Laboratory has recently undergone refurbishment resulting in approximately 90 sets of state-of-the-art test and measurement equipment, to be used by undergraduate students for their projects. However students turn up without notice, causing a lack of spare seats and organisation in the lab. As a result, students who may need the seats more than others suffer from lack of work space. In addition, the lab manager, Richard Walker, also has a problem with organising equipment for each students since there is nothing to notify him what each student needs, resulting in a tiring and confusing situation for him everyday to preapre the equipment sets for each individual student.
### Product Solution:
In order to help the students book their seats and equipment efficiently, our solution is a booking and attendance system, which will be a website, for the seats in the EE laboratory. The main website page will include a plan overview of the seats in the lab, where a user can clearly see the location of each seat. They can select a time period and the seat colours will change depending on the availability of the seats. The seats could be: available, booked for a lab session (by the admin, this will be for actual lab sessions for units on the course), unavailable (the seat has been booked) or locked (this would mean the seat is in the process of being booked, but not yet confirmed). This will allow the user to see availability of any seat at any time during the week. Once they select on a seat, they will be given a page which they can select which equipment they will require when they use the laboratory. There will be a provided list of equipment and then a text box which the entered data gets sent the lab technician, Richard Walker, to view special requests or equipment which is not on the list. Some equipment might be unavailable also. Whilst they are doing this their seat will be locked so no other user can select this seat even though it is yet to be booked. The user will then confirm the seat booking.
The normal user, which will be a student, can view the entire weeks laboratory seats starting Monday at 9am, and they can book up to 3 consecutive hours. The student will then scan in to the lab using their UCARD, which will then record their attendance, and then they scan their UCARD to sign out. They will scan their UCARD on a RFID scanner in the lab itself. If they book seats and do not attend 3 times then they will be blacklisted. The way to get off the blacklist is to talk to the admin, they will decide if the student can be removed or not. A student would register for the website via a tablet and RFID scanner in the lab. They would enter their details onto the tablet, then once they have finished they will scan their UCARD as the final piece of data. This will record their unique UCARD ID and associate this with their account to track attendance.
The admin, will have a slightly different web page with more power than the basic user. They will be able to book for the coming week from Friday 9am, because they will need to book the set lab sessions for units before the normal students book these seats. They can also block book seats, not just one, and can remove students bookings. The admin can also view the blacklist and the equipment list.

### Team Vision
We think this will solve the problems the EE faculty members and students are facing since it will be system which organises and solves the current problems the users face. In addition, it will provide information to all related users before the time period, making room for necessary preparations possible. If the users know before hand where they will be and what they will do, it will ease the unorganised system in the current lab.
